README.md, before:

# infield_robotics_workshop
## About
This repository contains material for the Infield Robotics Workshop of the VDI-Land.Technik / EurAgEng pre-conference.

<details open="open">
<summary>Table of Contents</summary>

- [About](#about)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
    - [installation in a new catkin workspace](#installation-in-a-new-catkin-workspace)
    - [installation in an existing catkin workspace](#installation-in-an-existing-catkin-workspace)
- [Running the Excercises](#running-the-excercises)
</details>

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Requirements

A system with setup ROS 1 Melodic or higher (tested for Melodic and Noetic)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INSTALLATION

### installation in a new catkin workspace 

exemplary installation using using catkin_make

source your ROS installation (replace ROS_DISTRO with the ROS_DISTRO you are using (e.g. 'noetic')
```sh
source /opt/ros/ROS_DISTRO/setup.bash
```

create new catkin workspace
```sh
mkdir -p ~/infield_robotics_ws/src
```

swithc into that workspace
```sh
cd ~/infield_robotics_ws/src
```

clone the repository with the tasks
```sh
git clone https://github.com/ATB-potsdam-automation/infield_robotics_workshop.git
```

(optional) clone the repository with the solutions
```sh
git clone https://github.com/ATB-potsdam-automation/infield_robotics_workshop_solutions.git
```

switch to workspace root folder
```sh
cd ~/infield_robotics_ws
```

build the workspace
```sh
catkin_make
```

--------------------

### installation in an existing catkin workspace

1. source your catkin workspace
2. change directory into your workspaces src folder
3. clone the reposistories
4. build using catkin_make / catkin build

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## RUNNING THE EXCERCISES

open a terminal and source your catkin_ws and ROS installation
```sh
~/infield_robotics_ws/devel/setup.bash
```

launch the data playback
```sh
roslaunch infield_robotics_workshop workshop.launch
```

open a second terminal and source your catkin_ws and ROS installation 
```sh
~/infield_robotics_ws/devel/setup.bash
```

run the tasks contained in the 'scripts' foulder (here the task1.py)
```sh
rosrun infield_robotics_workshop task1.py
```

Commit message:

Add Devcontainer definition and update README

README.md, after:

# infield_robotics_workshop
[![Open in Dev Containers](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Dev%20Containers&message=Open&color=blue&logo=visualstudiocode)](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode://ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers/cloneInVolume?url=https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-remote-try-java)

## About
This repository contains material for the Infield Robotics Workshop of the VDI-Land.Technik / EurAgEng pre-conference.

<details open="open">
<summary>Table of Contents</summary>

- [About](#about)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
    - [installation in a new catkin workspace](#installation-in-a-new-catkin-workspace)
    - [installation in an existing catkin workspace](#installation-in-an-existing-catkin-workspace)
- [Running the Excercises](#running-the-excercises)
</details>

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Requirements

A system with setup ROS 1 Melodic or higher (tested for Melodic and Noetic)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## INSTALLATION

### installation in a new catkin workspace 

exemplary installation using using catkin_make

source your ROS installation (replace ROS_DISTRO with the ROS_DISTRO you are using (e.g. 'noetic')
```sh
source /opt/ros/ROS_DISTRO/setup.bash
```

create new catkin workspace
```sh
mkdir -p ~/infield_robotics_ws/src
```

switch into that workspace
```sh
cd ~/infield_robotics_ws/src
```

clone the repository with the tasks
```sh
git clone https://github.com/ATB-potsdam-automation/infield_robotics_workshop.git
```

(optional) clone the repository with the solutions
```sh
git clone https://github.com/ATB-potsdam-automation/infield_robotics_workshop_solutions.git
```

switch to workspace root folder
```sh
cd ~/infield_robotics_ws
```

build the workspace
```sh
catkin_make
```

--------------------

### installation in an existing catkin workspace

1. source your catkin workspace
2. change directory into your workspaces src folder
3. clone the reposistories
4. build using catkin_make / catkin build

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Installation using Devcontainers (VS Code)
A Devcontainer configuration is provided in this repo under `.devcontainer` for use within VS Code. 
Note: You will need to have Docker installed on your system in order to build the container.

1. Install the [Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers) for VS Code.
2. From the remote connection window (found by clicking on the green icon at the bottom left of the VS Code window) choose "Reopen in Container"

The container will open in a pre-made ROS workspace directory with this respository cloned inside a `src/` subdirectory, having already run the setup script for ROS.

See [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers) for more information about using Devcontainers in VS Code.

## RUNNING THE EXCERCISES

open a terminal and source your catkin_ws and ROS installation
```sh
~/infield_robotics_ws/devel/setup.bash
```

launch the data playback
```sh
roslaunch infield_robotics_workshop workshop.launch
```

open a second terminal and source your catkin_ws and ROS installation 
```sh
~/infield_robotics_ws/devel/setup.bash
```

run the tasks contained in the 'scripts' foulder (here the task1.py)
```sh
rosrun infield_robotics_workshop task1.py
```
